general: update base image to Debian 12 ("Bookworm") (#3403)
docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file. The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/compare/v14.0.0...HEAD)

> **Note**: Changes and additions listed here are contained in the `:edge` image tag. These changes may not be as stable as released changes.

## [v14.0.0](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/releases/tag/v14.0.0)

The most noteworthy change of this release is the update of the container's base image from Debian 11 ("Bullseye") to Debian 12 ("Bookworm"). This update alone involves breaking changes and requires a careful update!

### Breaking

> - **Updated base image to Debian 12**
> - Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.
> - Updated packages. For an overview, [we have a review comment on the PR that introduces Debian 12](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403#issuecomment-1694563615)
>   - Notable major version bump: `openssl 3`, `clamav 1`, `spamassassin 4`, `redis-server 7`.
>   - Notable minor version bump: `postfix 3.5.18 => 3.7.6`

Reviewer: Grouping these under the same base image update change, which now also references the PR that introduces it.

Postfix patch versions bumped too, based on the current [`-updates` repos for Bullseye and Bookworm](https://packages.debian.org/search?searchon=sourcenames&keywords=postfix).

```suggestion
- **Updated base image to Debian 12** ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403))
  - Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.
  - Updated packages. For an overview, [we have a review comment on the PR that introduces Debian 12](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403#issuecomment-1694563615)
    - Notable major version bump: `openssl 3`, `clamav 1`, `spamassassin 4`, `redis-server 7`.
    - Notable minor version bump: `postfix 3.5.23 => 3.7.9`
```

> - **Postfix:**
>   - `compatibility_level` was raised from `2` to `3.6` ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403))
>     - Postfix has deprecated the usage of `whitelist` / `blacklist` in config parameters and logging in favor of `allowlist` / `denylist` and similar variations. ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403/files#r1306356328))
>       - This [may affect monitoring / analysis of logs output from Postfix](https://www.postfix.org/COMPATIBILITY_README.html#respectful_logging) that expects to match patterns on the prior terminology used.
>       - DMS `main.cf` has renamed `postscreen_dnsbl_whitelist_threshold` to `postscreen_dnsbl_allowlist_threshold` as part of this change.
>     - `smtpd_relay_restrictions` (relay policy) is now evaluated after `smtpd_recipient_restrictions` (spam policy). Previously it was evaluated before `smtpd_recipient_restrictions`. Mail to be relayed via DMS must now pass through the spam policy first.
>     - The TLS fingerprint policy has changed the default from MD5 to SHA256 (_DMS does not modify this Postfix parameter, but may affect any user customizations that do_).

Reviewer: Likewise, all these postfix changes are bundled under the package upgrade. Adjusted accordingly:

```suggestion
- **Postfix:**
  - Postfix upgrade from 3.5 to 3.7 ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403))
    - `compatibility_level` was raised from `2` to `3.6`
    - Postfix has deprecated the usage of `whitelist` / `blacklist` in config parameters and logging in favor of `allowlist` / `denylist` and similar variations. ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403/files#r1306356328))
      - This [may affect monitoring / analysis of logs output from Postfix](https://www.postfix.org/COMPATIBILITY_README.html#respectful_logging) that expects to match patterns on the prior terminology used.
      - DMS `main.cf` has renamed `postscreen_dnsbl_whitelist_threshold` to `postscreen_dnsbl_allowlist_threshold` as part of this change.
    - `smtpd_relay_restrictions` (relay policy) is now evaluated after `smtpd_recipient_restrictions` (spam policy). Previously it was evaluated before `smtpd_recipient_restrictions`. Mail to be relayed via DMS must now pass through the spam policy first.
    - The TLS fingerprint policy has changed the default from MD5 to SHA256 (_DMS does not modify this Postfix parameter, but may affect any user customizations that do_).
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file. The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/compare/v14.0.0...HEAD)

> **Note**: Changes and additions listed here are contained in the `:edge` image tag. These changes may not be as stable as released changes.

## [v14.0.0](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/releases/tag/v14.0.0)

The most noteworthy change of this release is the update of the container's base image from Debian 11 ("Bullseye") to Debian 12 ("Bookworm"). This update alone involves breaking changes and requires a careful update!

### Breaking

- **Updated base image to Debian 12** ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403))

>   - Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.

Reviewer: Probably worth highlighting this, although it probably won't break anything for our users.
- OAuth2 support just landed for v13.3 and neither of these fixes are related to the documented config.
- Lua support is only due to community contributed docs support.

```suggestion
  - Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.
    - While Debian 12 (Bookworm) was released in June 2023 and the latest Dovecot `2.3.21` in Sep 2023, as of Jan 2024 there is no [Dovecot community repo available for Debian 12](https://repo.dovecot.org).
    - This results in the Dovecot version being downgraded from `2.3.21` (DMS v13.3) to `2.3.19`, which [may affect functionality when you've explicitly configured for these features](https://github.com/dovecot/core/blob/30cde20f63650d8dcc4c7ad45418986f03159946/NEWS#L1-L158):
      - OAuth2 (_mostly regarding JWT usage, or POST requests (`introspection_mode = post`) with `client_id` + `client_secret`_).
      - Lua HTTP client (_DNS related_).
```

  - Updated packages. For an overview, [we have a review comment on the PR that introduces Debian 12](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403#issuecomment-1694563615)
    - Notable major version bump: `openssl 3`, `clamav 1`, `spamassassin 4`, `redis-server 7`.

>     - Notable minor version bump: `postfix 3.5.23 => 3.7.9`

Reviewer: Probably should highlight this downgrade due to community repo not being used.

```suggestion
    - Notable minor version bump: `postfix 3.5.23 => 3.7.9`
    - Notable minor version bump + downgrade: `dovecot 2.3.13 => 2.3.19` (_Previous release provided `2.3.21` via community repo, `2.3.19` is now the default_)
```

> **Note**: Changes and additions listed here are contained in the `:edge` image tag. These changes may not be as stable as released changes.

The most noteworthy change of this release is the update of the container's base image from Debian 11 ("Bullseye") to Debian 12 ("Bookworm"). This update alone involves breaking changes and requires a careful update!

### Breaking

- **Updated base image to Debian 12**
- Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.
- Updated packages. For an overview, [we have a review comment on the PR that introduces Debian 12](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403#issuecomment-1694563615)
  - Notable major version bump: `openssl 3`, `clamav 1`, `spamassassin 4`, `redis-server 7`.

>   - Notable minor version bump: `postfix 3.5.18 => 3.7.6`

Reviewer: rspamd minor version probably got bumped too, or at least consistent if you want to include that here in the changelog for visibility.

Author: I think we already shop 3.7.5 on our `:edge` builds TBH, which is AFAIK the very latest version of Rspamd.

Reviewer: > Rspamd will not see a version bump, so no note necessary.

~~Won't this be the first release where rspamd has the same version on AMD64 and ARM64?~~ (_**EDIT:** Nope that'd be 13.1 now_)

The [v13.1 PR removes from rspamd docs](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3686/files#diff-d6195d723286b5393e85a1f0f2127d1f72a1c814387f1f1b3f10b9eee85f98ddL13) stating rspamd 3.5 (AMD64) and 3.4 (ARM64).

Granted, since you've chosen to continue with a v13.1 release there won't be a version change to announce here, but it's [not mentioned explicitly in that PR changelog entry either](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3686/files#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4edR28).

Author: We can add this to the release PR of the v13.1.0 release.

> **Note**: Changes and additions listed here are contained in the `:edge` image tag. These changes may not be as stable as released changes.

The most noteworthy change of this release is the update of the container's base image from Debian 11 ("Bullseye") to Debian 12 ("Bookworm"). This update alone involves breaking changes and requires a careful update!

### Breaking

- **Updated base image to Debian 12** ([#3403](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3403))

>   - Changed the default of `DOVECOT_COMMUNITY_REPO` to `0` (disabled) - the Dovecot community repo will (for now) not be the default when building the DMS.

Reviewer: This is mentioned directly after this line..

- **Documentation:**
  - Raise awareness in the troubleshooting page for a common misconfiguration when deviating from our advice by using a bare domain ([#3680](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3680))

>   - updated note about Rspamd on ARM64 lacking behind in version

Reviewer: https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/issues/3374#issuecomment-1844793514

> By now there are ARM64 builds in the official rspamd debian repository. So it may be installed from this source instead of debian backports.

Recently merged PR that removed the docs addition, these changes were for v13.1: https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3686

The `package.sh` also reflects that update, so this changelog entry (with no PR) might as well be dropped?

```suggestion
```

  - Raise awareness in the troubleshooting page for a common misconfiguration when deviating from our advice by using a bare domain ([#3680](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3680))
- **Internal:**
  - Postfix configures `virtual_mailbox_maps` and `virtual_transport` during startup instead of using defaults (configured for Dovecot) via our `main.cf` ([#3681](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3681))
  - Updates to `packages.sh`:
    - The script now uses `/etc/os-release` to determine the release name of Debian
    - Removed custom installations of Fail2Ban, getmail6 and Rspamd
    - Updated packages lists and added comments for maintainability

>     - Use official Rspamd PPA on AMD64; no PPA is used on ARM64

Reviewer: This line isn't accurate anymore? Both ARM64 and AMD64 are used?

```suggestion
    - Use official Rspamd PPA
```

Author: ```suggestion
    - Use official Rspamd PPA for AMD64 and ARM64
```

- **Docs:**
  - Revised the SpamAssassin ENV docs to better communicate configuration and their relation to other ENV settings. ([#3756](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3756))

> 

Reviewer: Likewise, not something this PR should be modifying.

Author: You're right, but for this PR, not a problem now IMO.

  - Debugging - Raise awareness of temporary downtime during certificate renewal that can cause a failure to deliver local mail ([#3718](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3718))
- **Internal:**
  - Postfix configures `virtual_mailbox_maps` and `virtual_transport` during startup instead of using defaults (configured for Dovecot) via our `main.cf` ([#3681](https://github.com/docker-mailserver/docker-mailserver/pull/3681))
  - Updates to `packages.sh`:
    - The script now uses `/etc/os-release` to determine the release name of Debian
    - Removed custom installations of Fail2Ban, getmail6 and Rspamd

>     - Updated packages lists and added comments for maintainability

Reviewer: Note this changelog addition incorrectly handled resolving the merge conflict / rebase?

Shouldn't be swapping out changelog entries from prior releases :P

Author: Was this just the line

```txt
    - Updated packages lists and added comments for maintainability
```

?

Author: Hopefully completely resolved in 7cdf318d4dbfa975c6d63eff434dbf8241ed048b
